[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>I'm Richard Dolan,
and this is False Flags.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>If you are someone who
cares about the world
you live in and are interested
in that elusive thing called
"the truth," if you're
interested in true personal
transformation
through the truth,
then maybe this is
the show for you.
Our world is filled
with violence,
bombings, acts of
terror, trauma.
In watching or reading
the news, we almost
start to think this is
the normal way things
are supposed to be.
What I think happens is
that people watch the news--
say CNN, Fox, or NBC--
and they get to a point where
they can't take it anymore.
And then they just tune out.
It's too confusing, too
violent, too negative.
You start to wonder, why
put that into my life?
Tuning out from the
political is part
of a larger symptom, the spread
of a sense of hopelessness.
Many people can feel this,
even if they can't always
see it or put it into words.
It's a loss of control, a sense
that the vehicle you thought
you were driving is actually
being driven by someone else.
It comes with this
sense of confusion
about the world in which
the politics around us
don't seem to make
any sense, and there
doesn't seem to be any way out.
But what I am suggesting to
you is that this is by design.
The confusion,
the hopelessness--
it's not an accident.
Maybe once long
ago, we might have
believed that the
political establishment was
working for the people--
corrupt, sure, but
more or less, something
that worked on
behalf of the public.
It's what our society
still tells us every day--
that ever so
slowly, we're moving
toward greater inclusion,
greater democracy, right?
Well, maybe not.
The confusion and
hopelessness are no accident,
and there is a reason for this.
So this is a series on false
flags and covert operations.
Two questions
probably come to mind.
First, what's a "false flag?"
And secondly, how do
false flags and covert ops
relate to what I've
just been talking about?
Well, let's talk about false
flags and what they are.
Most basically, a
false flag is an action
done by a person or
usually a group--
say a government or an
intelligence agency--
that's then blamed on someone
else like, oh, terrorists,
which is then used to justify
things that could not otherwise
be justified like passing
authoritarian laws
or justifying military invasions
and financial takeovers
of nations, oh, like
Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya,
Ukraine, or Syria.
It can even be used for
something as straightforward
as diplomatic pressure
and propaganda victories.
For instance, we now know that
America's CIA has the ability
to conduct cyber
attacks and leave
phony cyber fingerprints that
would implicate another nation.
Pretty slick.
Undoubtedly, there
are other nations
with similar capabilities.
False flags are a
genuine phenomenon.
They are real.
Sometimes people
will try to tell you
that false flags are
tin foil hat territory,
but in fact, as you
will see in this series,
there have been many
verified false flags.
Now we turn to the pirates.
It's from these
fellows of history
that we actually get the
phrase, "false flag."
The term itself goes back
to early maritime history,
particularly when
pirates would use
the flags of other countries
to lure commercial vessels.
Then when the prey
got close enough,
the Pirates would hoist their
black flag, board the ship,
and steal its valuables.
Professional historians
tell us false flags were not
uncommon during the
golden age of piracy,
the 17th and 18th centuries.
You would think
that from a group
of people whose activities
are the cause of the phrase,
"false flag," that we
would have many false flag
stories from them.
But in fact, we have
only a small handful
of specific examples
of pirate false flags.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Well, it turns out that
the pirates in those days
had more honor than the agencies
of today that do false flags.
At least when the pirates
stole your treasure,
you knew it was them.
Today's perpetrators
of false flags
certainly don't make it
so easy to pinpoint them.
This program will be discussing
the history of false flags,
looking at the phenomenon
in its early history,
then really spending time on
the 20th and 21st centuries.
We'll be examining
how false flags went
from almost laughably simplistic
in their earliest incarnation
to the development and impact
of the false flags that
led to the Second World War
like the German Reichstag fire
and invasion of Poland and
the Japanese false flags
against China in the 1930s
and several interesting Soviet
false flags.
We'll also take a special look
at the attack on Pearl Harbor
and seek to understand
to what extent
that attack was
desired and enabled
by certain elites within
the United States.
Then we move into the Cold War
and, finally, the 21st century.
We'll see how and why the United
States became and still is
the world's leader in false
flags, how false flags have
become increasingly directed
against domestic populations,
whether through the FBI's
COINTELPRO of the 1950s
and '60s, the infamous Operation
Gladio, the infamous Chinese
Cultural Revolution, or
the creation of patsies
by intelligence
agencies in our own era.
>> Did you shoot the President?
>>No, they're taking me
in because of the fact
that I lived in
the Soviet Union.
I'm just a patsy.
>>Did you shoot the President?
>>We'll also see how
false flags continue
to be used internationally
to justify regime
change, to destroy
democratic governments,
and even enable military
invasions from the operations
in the Middle East and
Central America in the 1950s
and '60s to the wars and new
cold wars of the 21st century.
There is a real
art in eliminating
undesirable governments based
on fake evidence and smear
campaigns.
Of course, we will be looking at
9/11, still the most important
false flag of our lifetime.
>>On September the
11th, enemies of freedom
committed an act of war
against our country.
Our war on terror
begins with al-Qaeda,
but it does not end there.
>>The justification for
the US war on terror
and the abrogation
of civil liberties,
not merely in the United States,
but mimicked in other nations
around the world.
9/11 transformed
the world, and it
was without any shadow
of a doubt perpetrated
upon us as a grand deception.
Now as we're headed toward two
decades of post-9/11 dystopia,
it's more important than ever to
look at that event with a cold
eye toward the truth.
And I can assure you we
will be doing just that.
Unfortunately, false flags
did not stop with 9/11.
Indeed, we are now living
in an era of them--
the bombings, the shootings, the
setup jobs on innocent people,
and even the never-ending
health scares,
each designed in its
own way to induce fear
and to expand control
over citizens, something
that we will try to
alleviate in this series
through critical examination
of how false flags are carried
out.
>>It concludes that Iraq
has chemical and biological
weapons, that Saddam has
continued to produce them,
that he has existing and active
military plans for the use
of chemical or
biological weapons,
which could be activated
within 45 minutes,
including against his
own Shia population,
and that he's actively trying
to acquire nuclear weapons
capability.
>>We all believed that weapons
of mass destruction were there,
but they weren't.
>>That's a quick
overview of what
we'll be examining
in this series,
but I'd like to explore a
few interesting things first.
False flags is a
form of propaganda
and is a form of psychological
operation, or psyop.
I'd also like to explain
the preconditions
necessary for false
flags, and as a bonus,
offer a quick little lesson
in these steps of false flags.
First, it's important to
understand that false flags are
a form of propaganda.
After all, propaganda
is nothing more
than a language of
deception and manipulation
in order to persuade people to
support a particular position.
There are many levels of
propaganda in our world.
From the basic forms of
cultural conditioning
you get in school to the
incessant cultural distractions
that tell you to look over here
at the next shiny, new trinket
to the news media
that's owned by a very
few massive corporations that
select and spin information
in extremely self-serving
ways by which
they omit nearly all the
genuinely important news
developments of our world.
>>Several people
have been killed.
>>The men murdered that soldier.
>>Trying to drive
a class warfare.
>>Bomb crews worked outside
looking for explosives.
>>Indeed, those first few
levels of propaganda--
cultural conditioning,
cultural distractions,
and news media control--
easily account for
most of the mind
manipulation that
allows powerful elites
to get their way.
The system works extremely
well, especially when
most of the population is
overworked, overmedicated,
eating bad food, bombarding
people with sex scandals
and sports, while tossing
in meaningless political
platitudes usually works
really well at keeping people
off their game.
Even so, every once
in a while, stronger
medicine is needed for
elites to get what they want.
That's when they might use
covert ops, regime change
tactics, and yes, false flags.
Let's talk about psyops.
You might be interested to
know that countries worldwide
recognize false flags as part
of a new form of warfare,
hybrid warfare, essentially,
full spectrum warfare.
Hybrid warfare uses the
conventional warfare tactics
of armies and navies
and air forces,
but it also adds
something more, what
it calls irregular warfare.
And this can include almost
anything you can think of--
cyber warfare, media
propaganda, terrorist actions,
and all kinds of clandestine
secret activities
so that you don't know exactly
who was behind an action.
And if you don't
know who did it,
you can't really fight back.
We're really talking about a
revolution in how to wage war,
and it's going on
right under our noses.
It's interesting that when
a country or its military
talks about hybrid warfare, it's
always talking about something
that the other guy does.
>>A computer virus
called Stuxnet
was discovered
looking in the data
banks of power plants, traffic
control systems, and factories
around the world.
Buried deep in the Stuxnet
code was a specific target.
Without that target, the
virus remained dormant.
What was it looking
to shut down?
The centrifuges that
spin nuclear material
at Iran's enrichment facilities.
Stuxnet was a weapon, the
first to be made entirely
out of code.
>>One key element
of hybrid warfare
is psychological
operations or psyops.
Nowadays, the military calls
it by a different name--
Military Information
Support Operations, or MISO.
But the mission is
still the same--
in their words, to
selectively convey information
to influence minds,
emotions, and what they
call the objective
reasoning of targets.
In other words, influencing
populations through propaganda,
spin, and deception.
The military and intelligence
community practice three kinds
of psyops--
white, gray, and black.
White psyops are
straightforward.
These are openly acknowledged
statements or actions
of the government,
or at least are
attributed to a source
associated closely
with that government.
They would reflect an official
viewpoint like a statement
by the president or a
government official.
That doesn't mean that
they're truthful, by the way.
After all, presidents can
be pretty good at lying.
Gray psyops are a
bit more interesting.
These are statements or actions
in which the source is, quote,
"deliberately ambiguous."
In other words, even
though the true source
would be the government,
you wouldn't know that.
A classic example of this
is government collusion
with mainstream media in which
the media spins and misleads,
posing as objective journalism,
when, in fact, they're working
directly for the government.
The best known historical
example of gray psyops
was Operation Mockingbird.
>>Do you have any
people being paid
by the CIA, who are contributing
to the national news
services, AP and UPI?
>>Well again, I
think we're getting
into the kind of
detail, Mr. Chairman,
that I'd prefer to handle
in executive session.
>>This ran from the
1940s through the 1970s
and involved the
secret collaboration
of hundreds of American
journalists with the CIA.
This might've
involved journalists
conducting espionage for the
CIA while in a foreign country.
It might've involved
planting false stories.
controlling editorial policy.
Ask yourself what you
could do with hundreds
of mainstream journalists
secretly on your payroll.
Mockingbird was
manipulative enough.
Today, things are far
more sophisticated.
There are countless
whistleblowers, leaks,
and investigations
that make it clear.
What passes for mainstream
journalism today
is little more
than the propaganda
machine for the
national security state.
We'll be coming back to that sad
reality later in the program.
And then there are black psyops.
Now things get
really interesting.
Back in 1954, the CIA
defined black psyops
as something perpetrated
that appeared
to emanate from a source
hostile in nature.
The US government would
deny any connection.
The policy statement went
on to say that, quote,
"The content may be partially
or completely fabricated,
but that which is fabricated
is made to appear credible."
That, my friends,
is a false flag--
perpetrating something that
you blame on your enemy.
Now that statement
might be from 1954,
but today in the 21st century,
the US Army Psychological
Operations Manual uses
the exact same definitions
of white, gray, and
black psyops that the CIA
was using in the 1950s
and the very same words.
In other words, false flags
are in the official playbook
of the US military and
intelligence community.
>>Persuade, change, influence.
That is the motto of the US
Army's psychological operations
regimen.
They employ specific
communication methods
using a variety of
techniques, technology,
and mediums to
develop and deliver
messages, which will have the
greatest impact and influence.
These methods often
incorporate the use
of state of the art
multimedia products
that convey US policy
and national objectives.
>>What other countries sanction
as acceptable operations
is not as easy for
us to document,
but there are enough
indications that it's going on
in all leading
nations, something
to keep in mind next time
you're debating politics
at a family reunion.
Now what I want to do is
to give you some tools
to identify false flags.
It's not that every
false flag has
all the following qualities, but
they usually have many of them.
In a sense, then, we can create
a kind of false flag profile.
Number one, it's a spectacular
and emotional event.
[SCREAMING]
[EXPLOSION]
>>Now this sounds like
a hard and fast rule,
but let's just leave
it at it's usually
a spectacular and
emotional event.
The main thing is that
the target audience needs
to be affected by the event,
and the target audience is often
the general population.
For all practical
purposes, it's a good rule.
By spectacular and
emotional, I usually
mean traumatic in some way.
We're talking major
act of violence,
but not any kind of violence--
something unusual that seems
designed to attract attention.
It's not true, of course, that
every violent, sensational act
is a false flag.
That's why we have other
items on the checklist,
such as number two,
instant media saturation.
>>The one I saw was
dressed in black.
He seemed very young.
>>[SPEAKING FRENCH]
>>Just like item number one,
this doesn't mean automatically
that we're talking false flag.
However, when combined
with number one--
that is when we have a
spectacular, traumatic event
followed by instant
comprehensive media coverage--
then we need to start
paying close attention
to what's happening.
Regarding media coverage,
it's helpful to distinguish
between powerful state-sponsored
or state-friendly media
compared with smaller
independent sources.
In other words, when we find
the major media organizations
all covering the event
in the same way right out
of the gate in a manner that
is clearly friendly to state
interests, we need to set
up and pay close attention.
If you look carefully,
you will sometimes
find local or
independent news sources
that have different information,
sometimes critically important
information, that's different.
This will only happen in
the immediate aftermath
of the event.
In the case of a
genuine false flag,
this happens because they
aren't in the club, so to speak,
and they're not in on the fix.
We should also note that the
major media outlets will often
be out in front of
government action.
That is proposing
or at least opening
the door for the very measures
that the government apparatus
will soon be
proposing, typically,
either new restrictive
laws or military action.
And that leads us to
item number three,
the case is quickly closed.
>>Sources are telling CNN
that there are, quote,
good indications that people
with links to the Osama bin
Laden organization are
responsible for today's
attacks.
>>Once this happens,
we really need
to be suspicious,
because in real life,
investigations are messy.
They can be filled with
false leads and rabbit
holes that don't go anywhere.
But in the case of a false
flag, this doesn't happen.
Instead, within days,
sometimes one day,
think of 9/11 or
Lee Harvey Oswald.
The official verdict
has been rendered,
and apparently, there's no need
to continue an investigation.
We're already informed
by authorities
that we know who
committed the crime.
In all cases where a false
flag has been perpetrated,
the major media
outlets will refuse
to question the authorities,
will refuse to question
the official narrative.
Then item number four--
item number four
of a false flag is
having a convenient scapegoat.
>>[SPEAKING GERMAN]
>>Often, the individual or
group identified with the attack
are well-chosen and useful for
immediate political purposes,
whether we're talking
about the Nazis
using Poles or Communists
in their false flags,
Stalin using fictitious
reactionaries during the purge
of the 1930s, or the use
of white supremacists
and Muslims more recently.
The false flag will use a
patsy or a scapegoat that's
identified with a group
or nation currently being
demonized.
This will then directly
lead to item number
five, decisive and
negative government action.
And of course, that's the
whole point of the business.
>>Terrorism and serious
crime are a tiny subset
of the possibilities that you
could use this information for.
[SIRENS]
>>Such an action always
supported by a compliant media
machine will inevitably
lead to one of two things
and sometimes both
at the same time.
First, an erosion of citizen
rights in one form or another--
this is nearly always
done in the name
of safety and protection.
But it inevitably leads
to greater police powers
or other forms of regulatory
power by the state.
And then secondly,
the false flag,
especially if it's
done internationally,
can lead to an invasion of
another country that could not
ever otherwise be justified.
And this has happened
quite a few times.
And if not an
invasion, something
perhaps even more popular--
regime change.
I'll have a lot more to say
about the art of regime change
in future episodes.
But for now, I simply
want to mention
that creating a fake
revolution to switch out
an undesirable government
has, perhaps, become
more preferred than old
fashioned invasion or even
military coup.
Giving the pretense
of democratic uprising
always has its advantages.
In our time, the goal of most
false flags come down to three
results--
stripping away more rights,
invasion, and regime change.
A good investigator can usually
determine if any of these
were in the works, or at
least actively desired,
before the false
flag took place.
And if so, we might just
find some leading suspects.
Then there is item number
six, important anomalies
and questions, and
this one is key.
>>The latest building
collapse in New York--
you might have heard
a few moments ago--
is talking about the Salomon
Brothers Building collapsing,
and, indeed, it has.
It seems that this was not
the result of a new attack.
It was because the
building had been weakened.
>>As you can see behind
me, the Trade Center
appears to be still burning.
Completely disappeared
now, and New York
is still unable to
take on board what
has happened to them today.
>>A false flag, no matter
how well pulled off,
will usually leave behind
clues to a smart investigator.
When there are serious
discrepancies raised
in the aftermath of a shocking
event that instantly spurs
dramatic government action, we
need to ask a logical question.
Was the government
itself guilty of the act
it supposedly is
protecting us from?
Besides, the thing is, no
matter how good the false flag
profile may look,
it doesn't mean
very much until resourceful
investigators get their hands
dirty and investigate.
Simple as that.
>>They call themselves
the citizens' commission
to investigate the FBI.
They went down this corridor,
passed the local draft board,
and somehow got through this
door into the FBI office
and stole all the files,
documents, and correspondence
there.
>>Recent events have
given more indication
of the extent of government
snooping on civilians.
>>There's always one
other fundamental question
we need to be asking
about dramatic events that
make the headlines, and
that is item number seven,
who benefits?
>>Dick Cheney said it
would be a bad idea,
and that's why the first
Bush didn't go into Baghdad.
Dick Cheney then goes
to work for Halliburton,
making hundreds of millions
of dollars as their CEO.
Next thing you know
he's back in government.
It's a good idea
to go into Iraq.
>>He goes on to point
out that 9/11 offered
an easily exploited
opportunity for Cheney
to help mastermind
an Iraq invasion
and make a pile of cash.
>>Basic questions we must
always be asking ourselves--
does this alleged terrorist
action or whatever it is
give a clear benefit to any
government, any corporation,
or financial institution?
We need to look
behind the headlines
and what we are clearly
being pressured to think.
If there is a major beneficiary,
we need to be aware of it.
Throughout our history,
there have always
been a privileged few,
but not like today.
Today, a very tiny group of
people and their corporations
are looking to own all the
water, all the minerals, all
the natural resources, all the
genetically modified foods, all
the public services
that were formerly
administered by governments.
They are moving
to take all of it
and manage these
for their profit.
Today, the eight wealthiest
people in the world
have as much money
as the poorest half
of the entire human race.
Eight people owning
as much wealth
as nearly four billion people--
it's really not
that complicated,
when so few people
and their corporations
are moving so far ahead
of the rest of us.
In terms of ownership of
everything worth owning,
they will do everything possible
to keep us out of the way
while they do it.
They will influence governments
around the world, especially
the most powerful.
They will ensure the passage
of corporate-friendly laws
that will cement their
position forever.
And they will definitely
control the television news
and entertainment
system, making sure
that whatever messages
come through the channels
of your TV or your
local newspaper
are friendly to their interests.
But if these people are
going to take everything
worth taking in this
world, they can't simply
tell you what they're up to.
After all, you and I might have
something to say about that.
So they must rule by
deception, by confusion,
by spin and propaganda.
The truth is there usually is
a benefit to certain interests
when these things
occur, and it's not
anti-government to ask
questions about it.
Indeed, it's the mark of someone
who still has the ability
to think independently,
perhaps the most important,
and during certain periods in
history, the most dangerous
quality we might have.
Those are the big seven
items of a false flag,
and as we move
through this series,
we'll be looking at the events
under review through this lens.
But I want to point
out that this is not
quite the same as a formula.
There are patterns
to look for, but we
need to remind ourselves
that this phenomenon is
ever-changing.
In the modern era
of false flags,
for instance, there are other
developments to look for--
the existence of
multiple drills going on
during the day of
the false flag,
drills that actually mimic
the event that occurs.
There is also a not
uncommon connection
of suspects to intelligence
organizations like the CIA
or FBI in America
and their equivalent
agencies in other
countries, for instance.
Then there is the
proliferation of slogans,
often immediately appearing
as if they were cooked up
in a Madison Avenue boardroom.
Overall, we see increasing
levels of sophistication
in 21st century false
flags, including
a seamless integration with
mainstream websites, search
engines, and even cooperation
with so-called alternative
websites that maybe aren't
so alternative after all.
This series will
examine many proven
and provable false flags
that have shaped our world
over the past century.
Together, we're going to
walk through that history,
and in so doing, gain a
perspective that will enable us
to understand why we have
false flags and, perhaps,
most important of all, how to
identify them as they happen,
because if you can be sure
of anything in this world,
it's that there will be
more false flags to come.
Our job as citizens
of the world is not
to allow governments to
have us live in fear.
Our job is to see the world
clearly without illusion
beyond the propaganda
and beyond the trauma.
Through awareness,
we are empowered.
Through honest
exploration, we can
see through the
fear-mongering narrative
we're exposed to daily.
We've all heard many times that
the truth shall set us free.
After all, how can
we be free, if we are
shackled to lies and deception?
So my friends, remember,
reaching the truth
means stripping away
the illusions around us.
Don't buy into the fear.
It's about waking up.
Join me next time
on False Flags when
we look at early false flags.
How far back do they go?
I'm Richard Dolan.